Checkpoint D/README.md, before:

# CS 61: Database Systems
## Problem Set 2: MySQL Application
## Fall 2022
## [Ke Lou](https://github.com/fpoon777), [Amittai Siavava](https://github.com/siavava)

This directory contains the files for our submission
for CS-61 lab 2d.

To test our program, run `make`.

> Note:
> 1. For our program to work as intended, the underlying database must have been already set up.
>   We have included the SQL files from Lab 2c under the [sql][def2] directory.
>   You can run them by either `make` inside [sql][def2] or `make database` inside
>   the current directory.
>   The scripts rebuild the database and insert sample data.
> 2. Please only specify your user ID at the initial prompt.
>      - Do not add the `login` command.
>      - Thereafter, switching users will follow the usual `login <user-id>` command.
> 3. If you wish to use a different database name or location:
>      - Modify [dbconfig.ini][def] with your desired database, server, and credentials.
>      - Modify [sql/Makefile](./sql/Makefile) with your desired database, server, adn credentials.


Here's the composition of this directory:

```bash

# files in the directory
λ> tree                      
.
├── Makefile
├── README.md
├── author.py
├── dbconfig.ini
├── dbconfig.py
├── editor.py
├── main.py
├── reviewer.py
└── sql
    ├── Makefile
    ├── README.md
    ├── assignment.md
    ├── insert.sql
    ├── procedures.sql
    ├── procedurestest.sql
    ├── tables.sql
    ├── triggersetup.sql
    ├── triggertest.sql
    └── views.sql

1 directory, 18 files


# file composition
λ> cloc .
      18 text files.
      18 unique files.                              
       0 files ignored.

github.com/AlDanial/cloc v 1.94  T=0.04 s (403.9 files/s, 85416.3 lines/s)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Language                     files          blank        comment           code
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SQL                              7            131            180           1612
Python                           5            238            436            894
Markdown                         3             69              0            186
make                             2             14             13             28
INI                              1              1              0              5
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUM:                            18            453            629           2725
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```


[def]: dbconfig.ini
[def2]: sql

Commit message:

Add note on extra-credit implementation.

Checkpoint D/README.md, after:

# CS 61: Database Systems
## Problem Set 2: MySQL Application
## Fall 2022
## [Ke Lou](https://github.com/fpoon777), [Amittai Siavava](https://github.com/siavava)

This directory contains the files for our submission
for CS-61 lab 2d.

To test our program, run `make`.

> Note:
> 1. For our program to work as intended, the underlying database must have been already set up.
>   We have included the SQL files from Lab 2c under the [sql][def2] directory.
>   You can run them by either `make` inside [sql][def2] or `make database` inside
>   the current directory.
>   The scripts rebuild the database and insert sample data.
> 2. Please only specify your user ID at the initial prompt.
>      - Do not add the `login` command.
>      - Thereafter, switching users will follow the usual `login <user-id>` command.
> 3. If you wish to use a different database name or location:
>      - Modify [dbconfig.ini][def] with your desired database, server, and credentials.
>      - Modify [sql/Makefile](./sql/Makefile) with your desired database, server, adn credentials.

---

## Note on Extra-Credit Implementation

As a possible extension, we implemented the password feature described in the assignment.
We achieve authentication by saving a scrambled version of the password provided at registration.
When a user attempts to login, we ask for a password and check if the scrambled version matches the one in the database.

Pre-existing users without passwords are still able to login by providing an empty password.
New users can be registered without passwords (just don't type in anything at the password prompt)
and will be able to log in the same way as above.

However, users who did provide a password at registration **must** provide
the same exact password at login to be granted access.

---

Here's the composition of this directory:

```bash

# files in the directory
λ> tree                      
.
├── Makefile
├── README.md
├── author.py
├── dbconfig.ini
├── dbconfig.py
├── editor.py
├── main.py
├── reviewer.py
└── sql
    ├── Makefile
    ├── README.md
    ├── assignment.md
    ├── insert.sql
    ├── procedures.sql
    ├── procedurestest.sql
    ├── tables.sql
    ├── triggersetup.sql
    ├── triggertest.sql
    └── views.sql

1 directory, 18 files


# file composition
λ> cloc .
      18 text files.
      18 unique files.                              
       0 files ignored.

github.com/AlDanial/cloc v 1.94  T=0.04 s (403.9 files/s, 85416.3 lines/s)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Language                     files          blank        comment           code
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SQL                              7            131            180           1612
Python                           5            238            436            894
Markdown                         3             69              0            186
make                             2             14             13             28
INI                              1              1              0              5
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUM:                            18            453            629           2725
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```


[def]: dbconfig.ini
[def2]: sql
